So let's start exercise one, let's build a local filter where I want to basically have some text like
some text which should be reversed.
Now since it is a local filter,
it's as easy as adding filters here
and let's give it a name,
for example reverse which makes sense I guess.
Now reverse of course is a method like all filters are and we get the value we want to work with and
then we return value,
now to reverse a string, we first have to split it into individual characters so that we have an array
of characters instead of a string,
then we can call the reverse function on that array
and then we can again join it, join it with an empty string to join characters next to each other and
have no character in between.
That is really all, that is the reverse filter
and I can show you how it works by now outputting this in string interpolation here,
so outputting it like this,
of course some text now would not work,
so we have to turn this into a string and then apply our reverse filter here.
I had to turn it into a string
otherwise vuejs would look for a property named some text which wouldn't make sense because it's an
invalid property name to begin with,
so let's see if that worked. Looks great to me,
we see some text was indeed completely reversed not just individual words but the whole string which
is exactly what our filter here does.
So that was really quick and easy, this first local filter,
the next task is to build a global filter which also uses a word,
let's stick to the example here, test and then outputs this new string here which also gives us the
length. For a global filter,
I will go into the main.js file and here, I want to register a new filter with vue filter,
let's give it a name of let's say calculate length because that is what it does
and this shall be a function, I'll use ES6 syntax here which takes a value of course
and it shall then return a new string based on that. This new string shall basically be our value because
we don't want to change the word but we do want to append something, we want to append a whitespace
and an opening parentheses
and in the end we will have a closing parentheses, like this
but in between those parentheses, we now want to have the length being calculated and we can do this
by simply applying or using value length, value is a string and strings have the length property.
Now let's try this out,
we created this calculate length filter here and therefore, I can quickly turn this into string interpolation
here, for that of course I need to use a string again because otherwise you would look for a property
named test here
and then I can use,
whoops, then I can use calculate length like this.
Let's see this in action, looks exactly how I wanted it to look like,
let's try it with something else like for example my name here, choose your name of course.
Well that looks about right,
so these were the first two exercises solved by using filters,
now let's do the same by using computed properties.
So I will quickly copy the two paragraphs I used before because I want to use the same text so that
we have exactly the same results
but now of course with computed properties.
Now how do we do that?
Now the issue of course is that here, we're hard coding some text, therefore using a computed property
on some text like this is a bit hard.
Now let me quickly adjust this, to be able to use a computed property correctly and to have a more realistic
use case, I'll create my data method here to then return my data object in the end
and here I will have my first text which shall be some text here and I'll have my second text which
is my name in this case as I used it and of course here, that shouldn't be an equal sign but a colon.
So now I have this stored in properties I can use here
so first text and second text and you could of course also use this in the above two examples where
we use filters,
actually let's do this so that we really have the same things
there, so second text here and now I can set up my computed properties.
So I'll set up the computed object here and I want to create my reverse computed property,
let's say, reverse, like this
and in the reverse computed property,, I simply want to return this first text and then again split with
an empty string to split by character, reverse and then join again with an empty string.
So that's the same logic as in the filter
and the same is of course true for the calculate length
property here.
Here, I want to return this second text plus and then whitespace, parentheses, closing parentheses and in
between
just like before, I want to have my second text length. And with that, I can now go up there and here of course
I no longer use the filter since that here I want to output the reversed property, the computed property
and here I want to
well let's let's name it lengthAware, because it knows its name, so it's length,
so let's use this here.
Now let's head over and see if that works,
looks perfect to me, we get the same results twice, in the first block here using a filter or filters
and the second block using computed properties.
Now since we outsourced the calculate length function here into a computed property, we can no longer
share it as a filter which is too bad because now, if you would have another place in the app where
we wanted to use that, of course we would have to have the same property name second text there but if
that would be the case, well then we can't use like this.
So in order to make it available in other components too, let me create a mixin here, I'll name it length
aware mixin and that is a javascript file and here I will simply export a constant, lengthAwareMixin
like this which is an object
and all I want to have in this object here is my computed property object here.
I don't need it reversed but I want to have lengthAware in here and then I can now go back to the app.vue
file,
remove lengthAware here, therefore add the mixins array to now also add this newly treated mixin, I
have to import it first of course.
So I will import it from this lengthAwareMixin javascript file,
therefore here, it's the lengthAwareMixin which I now add here.
And with that, if I save it and let's reload, check the console if we get any errors,
looks great to me.
So with that, we first used some filters then used some computed properties and finally outsourced one computed
property into a mixin which we could now use in multiple components.
One restriction of course, all components where we want to use that have to use this second text property
to store the text we want to transform there.
And with that, I'd say nice little practicing on filters and mixins,
I hope you feel comfortable using them now.
And with that, let's move on.